OPEN DATA CHALLENGE

Contained in this archive is the International Pulsar Timing Array's
(IPTA's) Open data challenge data sets. As a participant in the 2012
IPTA data challenge, the main goal is to determine the extent to which
gravitational waves are affecting the arrival times of an 'observed'
set of pulsars. Since this is the open challenge, the
parameters used to create each of the data sets will be released on
the IPTA data challenge web site at the same time the data is made
public. Also, the perturbations added to the perfect model TOAs are 
released along with the data sets.

For more information on the details of each data set, see
http://www.ipta4gw.org.

This challenge presents the time-of-arrival (TOA) data in a
set of .tim files, one for each pulsar. Fitted parameter files, known
as .par files, are also given. 

One can use tempo2 to inspect the data and parameter files for a given
pulsar. Before running tempo2 on the data, see the OBSERVATORY section
below.

Here is a sample command line entry to look at one of the pulsar data
sets:

tempo2 -gr plk -f B1855+09.par B1855+09.tim 

This will plot the residuals obtained from the TOA measurements given
in the B1855+09.tim file using the parameters in the B1855+09.par
file.

DATA CHALLENGE DIRECTORIES:

Within each challenge, there are three distinct data sets label 1
through 3 in order of increasing difficulty. It is suggested that
participants analyze the data sets in this order.

The data files in the 'description' directory give the
perturbations added to the TOAs before model fitting. The first column
is the total perturbation, the second is the GW contribution, the
third is the red noise contribution, and the forth is the white
noise contribution. The sum of the last three columns is equal to the
first.

Challenge_Data/
	Dataset1/
	Dataset2/
	Dataset3/

Description/
	Dataset1/
	Dataset2/
	Dataset3/

THE OBSERVATORY:

The simulated data was assumed to be taken by the AXIS telescope,
which sits slightly above the ocean surface at 0 LAT, 0 LONG. You will
need to add the following line to your observatories.dat file:

   6378138.00    0.0     0.0                      AXIS                axi  

This file should be in your $TEMPO2/observatory directory.









